OFFICIAL_ONNX_FILE_SUPPORT_HISTOGRAM.md, before:

# Error frequency

| Error message | Count | Histogram |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Dynamic dim for tensor '*' | 146 | ██████████████████████████████ |
| Unsupported elem_type 10 (FLOAT16) for tensor '*'. | 65 | █████████████ |
| ReduceSum axes input must be constant | 39 | ████████ |
| Missing elem_type for tensor '*' | 34 | ███████ |
| Unsupported elem_type 8 (STRING) for tensor '*'. | 32 | ███████ |
| Unsupported op Slice | 26 | █████ |
| Unsupported op Identity | 20 | ████ |
| Unsupported op LayerNormalization | 19 | ████ |
| Unsupported op RMSNormalization | 19 | ████ |
| Unsupported op GridSample | 18 | ████ |
| NegativeLogLikelihoodLoss input must be at least 2D | 17 | ███ |
| Unsupported op Split | 17 | ███ |
| Unsupported op ArgMax | 16 | ███ |
| Unsupported op ArgMin | 16 | ███ |
| Unsupported elem_type 17 (FLOAT8E4M3FN) for tensor '*'. | 16 | ███ |
| Unsupported op Clip | 16 | ███ |
| Unsupported op Trilu | 16 | ███ |
| Unsupported elem_type 19 (FLOAT8E5M2) for tensor '*'. | 14 | ███ |
| Unsupported elem_type 26 (INT2) for tensor '*'. | 14 | ███ |
| Unsupported elem_type 22 (INT4) for tensor '*'. | 14 | ███ |
| Unsupported elem_type 25 (UINT2) for tensor '*'. | 14 | ███ |
| Unsupported elem_type 21 (UINT4) for tensor '*'. | 14 | ███ |
| Unsupported op ConvTranspose | 14 | ███ |
| Unsupported elem_type 18 (FLOAT8E4M3FNUZ) for tensor '*'. | 12 | ██ |
| Unsupported elem_type 20 (FLOAT8E5M2FNUZ) for tensor '*'. | 12 | ██ |
| Unsupported elem_type 23 (FLOAT4E2M1) for tensor '*'. | 11 | ██ |
| Unsupported op Pad | 11 | ██ |
| Unsupported op Flatten | 11 | ██ |
| Unsupported op Mod | 10 | ██ |
| Dynamic or zero dims are not supported | 9 | ██ |
| Unsupported op CumSum | 9 | ██ |
| Unsupported op ImageDecoder | 9 | ██ |
| Unsupported op NonMaxSuppression | 9 | ██ |
| Unsupported op BitShift | 8 | ██ |
| Dropout supports only the data input and 1 or 2 outputs | 8 | ██ |
| Unsupported op LpPool | 8 | ██ |
| Unsupported op Max | 8 | ██ |
| Unsupported op Min | 8 | ██ |
| Unsupported op RotaryEmbedding | 8 | ██ |
| Unsupported op Hardmax | 7 | █ |
| ReduceL1 axes input must be constant | 7 | █ |
| ReduceL2 axes input must be constant | 7 | █ |
| ReduceLogSumExp axes input must be constant | 7 | █ |
| ReduceMax axes input must be constant | 7 | █ |
| ReduceMin axes input must be constant | 7 | █ |
| ReduceProd axes input must be constant | 7 | █ |
| ReduceSumSquare axes input must be constant | 7 | █ |
| Unsupported op TfIdfVectorizer | 7 | █ |
| Unsupported op TopK | 7 | █ |
| AveragePool has unsupported attributes | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported elem_type 16 (BFLOAT16) for tensor '*'. | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op CenterCropPad | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op DFT | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op Div | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op Einsum | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op Expand | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op Gather | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op LpNormalization | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op QuantizeLinear | 6 | █ |
| ReduceMean axes input must be constant | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op ScatterElements | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op Sigmoid | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op Unique | 6 | █ |
| AveragePool expects 2D kernel_shape | 5 | █ |
| Unsupported op Elu | 5 | █ |
| Unsupported op Col2Im | 5 | █ |
| Unsupported op DequantizeLinear | 5 | █ |
| Unsupported op LeakyRelu | 5 | █ |
| ReduceSum output shape must be (1, 1, 1), got () | 5 | █ |
| Unsupported op ScatterND | 5 | █ |
| Unsupported op Selu | 5 | █ |
| Unsupported op AffineGrid | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op DeformConv | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op BitwiseAnd | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op BitwiseOr | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op BitwiseXor | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op Compress | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op Gelu | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op GRU | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op HardSigmoid | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op Softplus | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op OneHot | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op OptionalHasElement | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op QLinearMatMul | 4 | █ |
| ReduceLogSum axes input must be constant | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op RNN | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op Squeeze | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op Tile | 4 | █ |
| AveragePool supports auto_pad=NOTSET only | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op Bernoulli | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op RandomUniformLike | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op BitwiseNot | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported elem_type 24 (FLOAT8E8M0) for tensor '*'. | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op DynamicQuantizeLinear | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op Erf | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op EyeLike | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op GatherND | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op InstanceNormalization | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op IsInf | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op Loop | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op Momentum | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op RoiAlign | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op Shrink | 3 | █ |
| Sum must have 2 inputs and 1 output | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op TensorScatter | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op ThresholdedRelu | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op Acos | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Acosh | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Adagrad | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Adam | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op TreeEnsemble | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Asin | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Asinh | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Atan | 2 | █ |
| AveragePool supports ceil_mode=0 only | 2 | █ |
| BatchNormalization must have 5 inputs and 1 output | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op BlackmanWindow | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op ConvInteger | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Cosh | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op DepthToSpace | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Det | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op GlobalMaxPool | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op GroupNormalization | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op HammingWindow | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op HannWindow | 2 | █ |
| Max must have 2 inputs and 1 output | 2 | █ |
| MaxPool must have 1 input and 1 output | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op MaxUnpool | 2 | █ |
| Mean must have 2 inputs and 1 output | 2 | █ |
| Min must have 2 inputs and 1 output | 2 | █ |
| Pow expects matching dtypes, got float, int32 | 2 | █ |
| Pow expects matching dtypes, got float, int64 | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Pow | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Range | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Reciprocal | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op ReverseSequence | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Scan | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Scatter | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Sign | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Sinh | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Size | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Softsign | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op SpaceToDepth | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op STFT | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Gradient | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op ArrayFeatureExtractor | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op Binarizer | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op Celu | 1 | █ |
| Graph must contain at least one node | 1 | █ |
| Dropout mask output is not supported | 1 | █ |
| Gemm bias input must be rank 1 or 2, got () | 1 | █ |
| Gemm bias input must be broadcastable to output shape, got (1,) vs (3, 3) | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op HardSwish | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op If | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op IsNaN | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op MatMulInteger | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op MelWeightMatrix | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op Mish | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op MeanVarianceNormalization | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op NonZero | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op OptionalGetElement | 1 | █ |
| Pow expects matching dtypes, got float, uint32 | 1 | █ |
| Pow expects matching dtypes, got float, uint64 | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op QLinearConv | 1 | █ |
| ReduceMax does not support dtype bool | 1 | █ |
| ReduceMin does not support dtype bool | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op Round | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op Swish | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op Upsample | 1 | █ |
| Gemm bias input must be broadcastable to output shape, got (1,) vs (2, 4) | 1 | █ |

Commit message:

lowering: infer reduce axes from shapes

OFFICIAL_ONNX_FILE_SUPPORT_HISTOGRAM.md, after:

# Error frequency

| Error message | Count | Histogram |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Dynamic dim for tensor '*' | 146 | ██████████████████████████████ |
| Unsupported elem_type 10 (FLOAT16) for tensor '*'. | 65 | █████████████ |
| Missing elem_type for tensor '*' | 34 | ███████ |
| Unsupported elem_type 8 (STRING) for tensor '*'. | 32 | ███████ |
| Unsupported op Slice | 26 | █████ |
| Unsupported op Identity | 20 | ████ |
| Dynamic or zero dims are not supported | 20 | ████ |
| Unsupported op LayerNormalization | 19 | ████ |
| Unsupported op RMSNormalization | 19 | ████ |
| Unsupported op GridSample | 18 | ████ |
| ReduceSum axes input must be constant or inferable from shapes | 18 | ████ |
| NegativeLogLikelihoodLoss input must be at least 2D | 17 | ███ |
| Unsupported op Split | 17 | ███ |
| Unsupported op ArgMax | 16 | ███ |
| Unsupported op ArgMin | 16 | ███ |
| Unsupported elem_type 17 (FLOAT8E4M3FN) for tensor '*'. | 16 | ███ |
| Unsupported op Clip | 16 | ███ |
| Unsupported op Trilu | 16 | ███ |
| Unsupported elem_type 19 (FLOAT8E5M2) for tensor '*'. | 14 | ███ |
| Unsupported elem_type 26 (INT2) for tensor '*'. | 14 | ███ |
| Unsupported elem_type 22 (INT4) for tensor '*'. | 14 | ███ |
| Unsupported elem_type 25 (UINT2) for tensor '*'. | 14 | ███ |
| Unsupported elem_type 21 (UINT4) for tensor '*'. | 14 | ███ |
| Unsupported op ConvTranspose | 14 | ███ |
| Unsupported elem_type 18 (FLOAT8E4M3FNUZ) for tensor '*'. | 12 | ██ |
| Unsupported elem_type 20 (FLOAT8E5M2FNUZ) for tensor '*'. | 12 | ██ |
| Unsupported elem_type 23 (FLOAT4E2M1) for tensor '*'. | 11 | ██ |
| Unsupported op Pad | 11 | ██ |
| Unsupported op Flatten | 11 | ██ |
| Unsupported op Mod | 10 | ██ |
| Unsupported op CumSum | 9 | ██ |
| Unsupported op ImageDecoder | 9 | ██ |
| Unsupported op NonMaxSuppression | 9 | ██ |
| Unsupported op BitShift | 8 | ██ |
| Dropout supports only the data input and 1 or 2 outputs | 8 | ██ |
| Unsupported op LpPool | 8 | ██ |
| Unsupported op Max | 8 | ██ |
| Unsupported op Min | 8 | ██ |
| Unsupported op RotaryEmbedding | 8 | ██ |
| Unsupported op Hardmax | 7 | █ |
| Unsupported op TfIdfVectorizer | 7 | █ |
| Unsupported op TopK | 7 | █ |
| AveragePool has unsupported attributes | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported elem_type 16 (BFLOAT16) for tensor '*'. | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op CenterCropPad | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op DFT | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op Div | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op Einsum | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op Expand | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op Gather | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op LpNormalization | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op QuantizeLinear | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op ScatterElements | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op Sigmoid | 6 | █ |
| Unsupported op Unique | 6 | █ |
| AveragePool expects 2D kernel_shape | 5 | █ |
| Unsupported op Elu | 5 | █ |
| Unsupported op Col2Im | 5 | █ |
| Unsupported op DequantizeLinear | 5 | █ |
| Unsupported op LeakyRelu | 5 | █ |
| ReduceSum output shape must be (1, 1, 1), got () | 5 | █ |
| Unsupported op ScatterND | 5 | █ |
| Unsupported op Selu | 5 | █ |
| Unsupported op AffineGrid | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op DeformConv | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op BitwiseAnd | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op BitwiseOr | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op BitwiseXor | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op Compress | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op Gelu | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op GRU | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op HardSigmoid | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op Softplus | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op OneHot | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op OptionalHasElement | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op QLinearMatMul | 4 | █ |
| CastLike input and output shapes must match | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op RNN | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op Squeeze | 4 | █ |
| Unsupported op Tile | 4 | █ |
| AveragePool supports auto_pad=NOTSET only | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op Bernoulli | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op RandomUniformLike | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op BitwiseNot | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported elem_type 24 (FLOAT8E8M0) for tensor '*'. | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op DynamicQuantizeLinear | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op Erf | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op EyeLike | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op GatherND | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op InstanceNormalization | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op IsInf | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op Loop | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op Momentum | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op RoiAlign | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op Shrink | 3 | █ |
| Sum must have 2 inputs and 1 output | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op TensorScatter | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op ThresholdedRelu | 3 | █ |
| Unsupported op Acos | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Acosh | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Adagrad | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Adam | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op TreeEnsemble | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Asin | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Asinh | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Atan | 2 | █ |
| AveragePool supports ceil_mode=0 only | 2 | █ |
| BatchNormalization must have 5 inputs and 1 output | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op BlackmanWindow | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op ConvInteger | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Cosh | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op DepthToSpace | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Det | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op GlobalMaxPool | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op GroupNormalization | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op HammingWindow | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op HannWindow | 2 | █ |
| Max must have 2 inputs and 1 output | 2 | █ |
| MaxPool must have 1 input and 1 output | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op MaxUnpool | 2 | █ |
| Mean must have 2 inputs and 1 output | 2 | █ |
| Min must have 2 inputs and 1 output | 2 | █ |
| Pow expects matching dtypes, got float, int32 | 2 | █ |
| Pow expects matching dtypes, got float, int64 | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Pow | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Range | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Reciprocal | 2 | █ |
| ReduceL1 axes input must be constant or inferable from shapes | 2 | █ |
| ReduceL2 axes input must be constant or inferable from shapes | 2 | █ |
| ReduceLogSumExp axes input must be constant or inferable from shapes | 2 | █ |
| ReduceMax axes input must be constant or inferable from shapes | 2 | █ |
| ReduceMean axes input must be constant or inferable from shapes | 2 | █ |
| ReduceMin axes input must be constant or inferable from shapes | 2 | █ |
| ReduceProd axes input must be constant or inferable from shapes | 2 | █ |
| ReduceSumSquare axes input must be constant or inferable from shapes | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op ReverseSequence | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Scan | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Scatter | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Sign | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Sinh | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Size | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Softsign | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op SpaceToDepth | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op STFT | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op Gradient | 2 | █ |
| Unsupported op ArrayFeatureExtractor | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op Binarizer | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op Celu | 1 | █ |
| Graph must contain at least one node | 1 | █ |
| Dropout mask output is not supported | 1 | █ |
| Gemm bias input must be rank 1 or 2, got () | 1 | █ |
| Gemm bias input must be broadcastable to output shape, got (1,) vs (3, 3) | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op HardSwish | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op If | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op IsNaN | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op MatMulInteger | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op MelWeightMatrix | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op Mish | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op MeanVarianceNormalization | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op NonZero | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op OptionalGetElement | 1 | █ |
| Pow expects matching dtypes, got float, uint32 | 1 | █ |
| Pow expects matching dtypes, got float, uint64 | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op QLinearConv | 1 | █ |
| ReduceMax does not support dtype bool | 1 | █ |
| ReduceMin does not support dtype bool | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op Round | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op Swish | 1 | █ |
| Unsupported op Upsample | 1 | █ |
| Gemm bias input must be broadcastable to output shape, got (1,) vs (2, 4) | 1 | █ |
